## General Equipment Keywords
**Damaged X**: This piece of equipment has been damaged due to Mishaps or the actions of a Creature or time. Reduce the Power of this equipment by the number X specified in this Keyword, if the Power reaches or drops bellow 0, remove this Keyword and give the item the Broken Keyword. Removing Damaged X Keyword can be done via a Mind Test with difficulty equal to the amount of Damaged X you want removed, you must also have the appropriate materials to repair the item.

**Broken**: This piece of equipment is broken. It has no effects and no uses until it is repaired.

**Reinforced**: If this piece of equipment can take the Damaged Keyword one extra time.

**Makeshift**: This piece of equipment was made in a pinch. If it breaks (I.E.: receives the Broken Keyword), it won't be repairable.

**Reliable**: This piece of equipment cannot suffer Mishaps if a roll using it succeeds.

**Concealable**: It is easy to hide this piece of equipment. Tests to detect this item when hidden have Disadvantage 2.

**One-Handed**: This item can only be used with one hand.

**Two-Handed**: This item can only be used with two hands.

**Four-Handed**: This item can only be used with four hands.

**Versatile**: This item can be used with one hand or two hands. If the user chooses to do the latter, raise the primary Power of this piece of equipment by 1.

## Tool Keywords
**Tool Power X**: This tool has X of (Tool) Power, which reduces the amount of time needed to execute an action that involves the specific power and may allow to do actions that need higher amounts of power. For example, a tool with Mining Power 2 will take less time to mine Stone and can mine Sturdy Ore. Check the Power Reference List for some examples.

**Base Tool**: This tool is not an actual item, it is instead the baseline stats for this kind of tool. To turn it into an actual item, add the Keywords between () from the appropriate materials to this Base Tool's Keywords.

**Multitool Power X**: This tool is capable of executing the activities of two or more tools at Tool Power X. The tools this multitool can assume the purpose of will be listed between [ ].

**Repair Tool**: This tool can be used to repair Structures, Vehicles and items with the Damaged X or Broken Keywords without the need to roll.

**Weapon**: This tool can also act as a weapon. Unless stated otherwise, turn its Tool Power into Physical Power when attacking.

## Weapon Keywords
**Weapon Power X**: This weapon adds X amount of (Weapon) damage to the attack. For example, a weapon with Physical Power 2 adds 2 Physical Damage, while a weapon with Fire Power 4 adds 4 Fire Damage. Check the Power Reference List for some examples.

**Base Weapon**: This weapon is not an actual item, it is instead the baseline stats for this kind of weapon. To turn it into an actual item, add the Keywords between () from the appropriate materials to this Base Weapon's Keywords.

**Reach**: Melee attacks done by this weapon can reach an additional Gridspace.

**Sweeping**: Melee attacks done by this weapon can cover a 3 Gridspace horizontal line whose center is the space right in front of the user. For a better frame of reference, check the diagrams under this description.

(INSERT DIAGRAM)

**Range**: This weapon is a ranged weapon, this means a few things:
> Their Weapon Power is only accessible by shooting a projectile using this weapon. If it is used for a melee attack, they will only provide Physical Power 1;
> Unless stated otherwise, shooting a projectile at an adjacent target provides Disadvantage 4;
> Unless stated otherwise, having a non-obscuring obstacle (E.G.: a Creature) on the way of your target provides Disadvantage 2;
> Unless stated otherwise, the projectile stops at the first obscuring obstacle (E.G.: a wall) it encounters or at the end of its range;
> If this weapon or the shot projectile has the Keyword Area, Cone, Line, or Aura, you may choose any point within the range of this weapon to serve as the point the origin of the given shape.

The reach of the weapon is dictated by the modifier on the Range Keyword:
- Lesser Range: This weapon reaches 15 Gridspaces in range;
- Greater Range: This weapon reaches 45 Gridspaces in range;
- Extreme Range: This weapon reaches 150 Gridspaces in range, but it has Disadvantage 4 on hitting targets up to 30 Movement Spaces of distance.

**Area YxY**:  This weapon attacks in a YxY square area. For a better frame of reference, check the diagram under this description.

(INSERT DIAGRAM)

**Cone X**: This weapon attacks in a cone shape that covers X+1 height and 2X+1 base. For a better frame of reference, check the diagram under this description.

(INSERT DIAGRAMS)

**Line X**: This weapon attacks in a vertical line that is X+1 Movement Spaces long. Unless stated otherwise, the attack stops at the first obstacle it hits. For a better frame of reference, check the diagrams under this description.

(INSERT DIAGRAMS)

**Aura YxY**: This weapon attacks in a YxY square aura around the user. Y must always be an odd number (E.G.: 3x3, 5x5, 7x7...), and the center of the aura is not affected by the attack, unless stated otherwise. For a better frame of reference, check the diagram under this description.

(INSERT DIAGRAM)

**Guts**: The sheer power, reach, or brutality of this weapon guarantees it to damage targets even on glancing hits. If an attack using a weapon with this keyword misses, deal damage according to the modifier on the Guts Keyword.
- Lesser Guts: The weapon deals 1 point of damage, respecting their type of Weapon Power (E.G.: Physical Power);
- Guts: The weapon deals half their Weapon Power (E.G.: Physical Power), rounded up;
- Greater Guts: The weapon deals their full Weapon Power (E.G.: Physical Power).

**Armor Shatter**: Instead of dealing damage, the user of this weapon may decide to inflict the Damaged X Keyword to a target's armor, but only if the attack roll surpasses the target's defense roll by 2 Successes.

**Puncturing**: On attack rolls that surpasses the target's defense roll by 2 Successes, this weapon's projectile punches through the target and continues its trajectory as if the first target it hit wasn't there.

**Tripping**: On attack rolls that surpasses the target's defense roll by 2 Successes, this weapon's attack also afflicts the target with the condition Prone.

**Grabbing**: On attack rolls that surpasses the target's defense roll by 2 Successes, this weapon's attack also afflicts the target with the condition Grappled.

**Stunning**: On attack rolls that surpasses the target's defense roll by 2 Successes, this weapon's attack also afflicts the target with the condition Dazed.

**Intimidating**: On attack rolls that surpasses the target's defense roll by 2 Successes, this weapon's attack also afflicts the target with the condition Fear.

**Bleeding**: On attack rolls that surpasses the target's defense roll by 2 Successes, this weapon's attack also afflicts the target with the condition Bleeding.

**Poisoning**: On attack rolls that surpasses the target's defense roll by 2 Successes, this weapon's attack also afflicts the target with the condition Poisoned.

**Igniting**: On attack rolls that surpasses the target's defense roll by 2 Successes, this weapon's attack also afflicts the target with the condition On Fire.

**Freezing**: On Criticals, this weapon's attack also afflicts the target with the condition Frozen.

**High Caliber**: On Criticals, this weapon ignores the target's Shielding Power.

**Piercing**: Projectiles and Lines fired from this weapon ignore the non-obscuring obstacle Disadvantage and do not stop at the first obstacle they encounter.

**Point-Blank**: This ranged weapon was built for close-quarters combat. Not only does it have no Disadvantage on shooting a projectile on adjacent targets, it also deals 2 extra Damage to them.

**Straight Path**: Projectiles shot from this weapon hardly deviate from their trajectory. When shooting against a target that has not moved this Round, gain Advantage 2.

## Armor Keywords
**Shielding Power X**: This armor adds X amount of Shielding to the defense roll. For example, an armor with Shielding Power 2 will subtract two extra damage when rolling defense.

**Dodge -X**: Reduce the user's Dodge attribute by the listed amount. The minimum Dodge a Creature can have is 1.

**Utility Space X**: The amount of Utilities this armor can hold.

**Base Armor**: This armor is not an actual item, it is instead the baseline stats for this kind of armor. To turn it into an actual item, add the Keywords between () from the appropriate materials to this Base Armor's Keywords.

**Concealed Armor**: This suit of armor is tailored to look similar to day-to-day clothing. Tests to detect that this armor is actually armor have Disadvantage 2.

**Waterbound**: While wearing this armor, the user's Swimming Speed is the same as their Walking Speed.

**Climbing Gear**

## Utility Keywords
**Utility**: Marks the size of an utility and, as a result, the amount of Utility Space it takes. The Utility Space used is dictated by the modifier on the Utility Keyword:
- Utility: This utility take 1 Utility Space;
- Large Utility: This utility take 2 Utility Spaces;
- Huge Utility: This utility take 3 Utility Spaces.

**Depth Striding**: While wearing this Utility the user is able to move at the bottom of liquid pools with their full Walking Speed.

**Heat Protection**: This utility makes the user immune to the effects of Hot weather.

**Melting Protection**: This utility makes the user immune to the effects of Hot and Melting weather.

**Cold Protection**: This utility makes the user immune to the effects of Cold weather.

**Freezing Protection**: This utility makes the user immune to the effects of Cold and Freezing weather.