### Rests
Every being, independent of origin, needs rest to organize their thoughts and allow their body time to recoup. The typical Rest lasts somewhere between 6 to 8 hours, but it can be adjusted under Worldshaper discretion, setting demand, or when something says otherwise.

A few things are important to notice during Rests. First and foremost, a Creature only heals during a Rest if it has eaten the day it is taking that Rest. The way to define the amount of dice rolled is as follows:

HP Recovering in Rests, rounded down:
``Body + Mind + Focus / 3 = Number of Dice Rolled``
``2 + Successes + Heal Support = Health Recovered by the Rest``

Second thing is the matter of shelter. Depending on the shelter, or lack thereof, that an [[8.3.1 - Travelling in Groups|Entourage]] decides to Rest at, they may need someone (or someones, in rotation) to keep watch or be susceptible to ambushes from wildlife, opportunists, and even agents of enemy factions.

Apart from that, Resting without shelter in unfavorable climates, such as Cold or Hot, will result on Exposure Damage being dealt *after* the Health Recovery, following the table bellow.

Climate | Exposure Damage | With Shelter | Examples
------- | --------------- | --------------- | --------
Unfavorable | 1 | 0 | Cold, Hot
Extreme | 3 | 1 | Freezing, Melting
Unbearable | 12 | 6 | Near 0 Absolute, Infernal

Do note, any valid protections, resistances, and immunities apply to the Exposure Damage listed in this table.

### Breathers
Breathers are small moments of peace during an adventure, giving time for an Entourage to regroup and reorganize their resources. The typical Breather lasts somewhere between 30 minutes to an hour, but it can be adjusted under Worldshaper discretion, setting demand, or when something says otherwise.

A Breather can only be taken in an area considered safe, that is, an area where the surrounding environment is known to the members of the Fellowship and there are no hostiles, traps, or other things that would harm members of the Entourage nearby. During a Breather, the Players may opt to use any active [[4.2.1 - Item Keywords|Heal Support]] they have on them to heal that amount of Health, but removing that Heal Support from the recovery of a Rest.