Players may gain [[2.4.1 - Attributes|Attribute]] Increments by spending time and effort during the game. In other words, Player Characters must take time from their day to exercise themselves, learn about the world around them, among other activities that would be connected with training Health, Body, Mind, Focus, Dodge, Toughness or Movement, under Worldshaper discretion.

The tables bellow show two measures of time you need to follow to reach the Attribute Value (Att. Value). Time per Day is the amount of time someone must train per day to sucessfully maintain a training routine and Time Overall is the amount of time that the training routine must be maintained for that Attribute Increment to take place, in other words, for someone to go from Body 1 to Body 2, they must train 2 hours a day for 1 week.

There are 3 tables, each applies to a different set of Attributes, read the blurb above them carefully.

___

Body, Mind, Focus, Dodge and Toughness use the following table:

Att. Value | Time per Day | Time Overall
---------- | ------------ | ------------
1 | 2 Hours | 3 Days
2 | 2 Hours | 1 Week
3 | 2 Hours | 3 Weeks
4 | 4 Hours | 1 Month
5 | 4 Hours | 3 Months
6 | 4 Hours | 6 Months
7 | 6 Hours | 9 Months
8 | 6 Hours | 1 Year
9 | 6 Hours | 1 Year, 3 Months
10 | 8 Hours | 1 Year, 6 Months
11* | 8 Hours | 1 Year, 9 Months
12* | 8 Hours | 2 Years
*These are only achievable via Bolsters.

Health uses the following table:

Att. Value | Time per Day | Time Overall
---------- | ------------ | ------------
1-5 | 2 Hours | 3 Days
6-10 | 2 Hours | 1 Week
11-15 | 4 Hours | 3 Weeks
16-20 | 4 Hours | 1 Month
21-25 | 6 Hours | 3 Months
26-30 | 8 Hours | 6 Months

Movement uses the following table:

Att. Value | Time per Day | Time Overall
---------- | ------------ | ------------
1 | 2 Hours | 1 Week
2 | 2 Hours | 3 Weeks
3 | 4 Hours | 1 Month
4 | 4 Hours | 3 Months
5 | 6 Hours | 6 Months
6 | 6 Hours | 9 Months
7 | 8 Hours | 1 Year
8 | 8 Hours | 1 Year, 3 Months