Creatures have 7 Attributes: Health, Body, Mind, Focus, Dodge, Toughness, and Movement. Each and every one of them has a use during the game.

Body, Mind, Focus, Dodge, and Toughness are used to define the amount of dice a Creature has on [[1.3.1 - 6 Sided Dice|Rolls]]. On top of that, if any of these Attributes hit 0, the Creature in question dies, unless something states otherwise.

Health and Movement aren't used for rolling, but they convey important information. Having them hit 0 will have dire consequences... or turn a Creature stationary.

Finally, Player Characters have an eight Attribute: Luck. Luck is used both as a resource and during Rolls, and it can freely hit 0 "without" consequence, as Rolls with 0 dice are instant failures.

The Attributes are described in more detail bellow.

**Health (HP)** | *Max: 30*
Health is a measure of bodily integrity, pain tolerance and other assorted means to symbolize a Creature's endurance, the number given to you in character creation represents your maximum Health. A Creature's Health is reduced if it takes damage and is restored through the use of healing items or [[7.2 - Rests and Breathers|Resting]] after having eaten. If a Player's health falls to zero, they [[5.6.1 - Hitting 0 HP|have a tough choice ahead of them]].

**Body (Bdy)** | *Max: 10*
Body is a combination of a Creature's strength and dexterity. It is used for general rolls that involve physical activities and physical attack rolls.

**Mind (Mnd)** | *Max: 10*
Mind is a combination of a Creature's smarts and knowledge about the world and magic. It is used for general rolls that involve mental abilities and magical attack rolls.

**Focus (Fcs)** | *Max: 10*
Focus is a Creature's ability to keep track of its surroundings, shield themselves from distractions, and acting accordingly to their guts. It is used for general rolls that involve noticing things, investigating environments, staving off distractions, and [[5.3.1 - Rolling for Initiative|Initiative]].

**Dodge (Dge)** | *Max: 10*
Dodge is a Creature's ability to avoid hits directed at them. If the Dodge roll yields Successes, they are forced to move with up to half their Movement. Armor can and will reduce its value, if reduced this way, Dodge can only have a minimum of 1.

**Toughness (Tgn)** | *Max: 10*
Toughness is a Creature's ability to endure hits directed at them.

**Luck (Lck)** | *Max: N/A*
Lady Luck is blind and unreliable, but it is a vital resource for anyone's success when travelling the wilderness. A Player can sacrifice a Luck point, losing it forever, to reroll a dice, avoid certain death with 1 Health left, or other effects, under Worldshaper's discretion. To gain Luck, the Player must be awarded it through roleplay and creative thinking. Player characters begin with 3 Luck.

**Movement (Mvt)** | *Max: 8*
Movement is the amount of Gridsquares a Creature can move during a Movement Action.