Here are listed some example Identities that you, Worldshaper, may use as basis for your own or copy them directly into your scenario.

___
### Noble
_"Nobility is often considered unfit for the trials and tribulations of the wilderness, but when the topic is the hazardous royal court and their connections, they are ready for anything."_

A short description including, but not limited to, lore importance of the identity, what it does and what can the players expect from it.

__You have the following Items:__
- 5x Item with the Valuable Keyword
- Item with the Trinket Keyword considered to be a Family Heirloom
- Noble's Clothes

_You may choose 2 extra items from the list bellow_
- 5x Item with the Valuable Keyword
- Hardwood Scepter
- Trade Goods Deed
- A mundane book of your choice, under Worldshaper discretion
- Padded Armor
- Broadsword with the Trinket Keyword


__Choose one of the following Keywords:__
*Ear of the Emperor* - Someone with a position power (Major Contact) within the royal court of a country owes you a life debt. Given you have the ability to communicate with them in some way, you may ask favors of them and they will try to fulfill those to the best of their ability. Should you ask a favor that this individual considers too large, too risky or too complex, they may consider the life debt they owe to you payed and this Keyword is removed.

*Knighted Nobility* - Cerimonial Weapons (Weapons with the Trinket Keyword) have 2 extra Physical Power when used by you.

*Merchant Lord* - After the game starts, remove this Keyword, you gain the Bargaining Expertise at Novice level, if you already have it, upgrade it to the next level instead.

*Courtling* - After the game starts, remove this Keyword, you gain the Local Politics Knowledge for your country of origin, if you already have that, you may choose another country.
___
### Name of the Identity
_"Flavor Text"_

A short description including, but not limited to, lore importance of the identity, what it does and what can the players expect from it.

__You have the following Items:__
An itemized list of roughly 3 to 4 [[3.2.2 - Example Items|items]]. If you want to include weapons and tools, include something with their respective Power 2 (Example: A Sword with Physical Power 2), if you want to include armor, include up to second tier armor if it makes sense for this Identity to have one.

_You may choose 2 extra items from the list bellow_
An itemized list of roughly 6 to 7 items. It is a good idea to include extra survival items on this list, as well as giving the option for the player of choosing an item with the Valuable Keyword and/or an item with the Trinket Keyword, under your discretion, for lore reasons.


__Choose one of the following Keywords:__
An itemized list of roughly of 4 Keywords, together with an, preferably short, explanation of what they do.

___