Barriers and Bolsters are mechanical and narrative elements of character creation that offer challenges and bonuses respectively. During character creation, a player may choose to pick a Barrier and a Bolster. It is important to note that, if they choose a Barrier, they must pick a Bolster, and vice-versa, following the rules listed below:

-   The Barrier/Bolster have their prerequisites fulfilled;
-   The Bolster must have an Effect Value EQUAL OR LOWER then the Effect Value of the Barrier;
-   To be eligible to this ruleset, the Barrier/Bolster must not have the Extreme Effect Value. If a player wants to choose a Barrier/Bolster with the Extreme Effect Value, follow the rules found in the next section.

For frame of reference, the Effect Values are: Minor, Mild, Major, Extreme.

During gameplay, a character may acquire Bolsters and Barriers via narrative occurrences, under Worldshaper discretion, or via certain mechanics.

## Choosing Extreme Barriers and Bolsters
Under Worldshaper discretion, a player may be allowed to choose a Barrier/Bolster with the Extreme Effect Value. If that is the case, follow the rules listed below:

-   A player can only choose one Barrier/Bolster with the Extreme Effect Value. This means a player can't simply choose an Extreme Barrier and an Extreme Bolster;
-   Once the Barrier/Bolster with the Extreme Effect Value is chosen, the player must choose on of the following combinations of effect values for the opposite of their choice (E.I.: If an Extreme Barrier was chosen, this will apply for the Bolsters, and vice-versa).
	-   1 Major and 1 Minor;
	-   2 Milds;
	-   1 Mild and 2 Minors.