This section is reserved for the Worldshaper, unless you are seeking to create your own scenario or host your own game, you can safely skip it. If you are looking for example Sapient Pages, check [[2.3.3 - Example Sapient Pages|Example Sapient Pages]].

The name Sapient is very much a deliberate choice, as it denominates something of human intelligence, something that can communicate in a language of limited symbols and infinite arrangements, trade, and create and use tools. Does this mean there are no other intelligent creatures beyond those tagged with the Sapient Keyword?

No, there are creatures tagged with Keywords like Tool User, Trader, and Speaks (Language) that have human-adjacent intelligence in the respective domains these Keywords represent. Furthermore, creatures tagged with Alien Intelligence have intent, like Sapients but, their base needs are in such a misalignment with the base needs of Sapients, that their motives are nearly incomprehensible and can pass as absurd or dumb.

The reason only Sapients are the only playable form of intelligence is only due to a matter of compatibility: It is easier for a Sapient actor to play a Sapient character and relate to their plight and the plight of their fellows. Plus, most mechanics of the system were developed with sapience in mind, so fitting in a non-human intelligence would prove difficult.

___
### Name of Sapient
A description of these Sapients' apparence, general culture and history. Giving the players a sense of what to expect about them while playing as them or meeting them in-game, as well as some notions about general lore the players could use as a basis for their character's background.

__Classification__
The [[4.1.2 - Creature Classifications|Creature Classification]] of these Sapients.

__Base Attributes__
The [[3.2 - Base Creatures|base]] attributes of these Sapients in a table as the one bellow.

HP | Bdy | Mnd | Fcs | Dge | Tgn | Mvt 
-- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
X | Y | Z | A | B | C | D 

__Base Keywords__
The base [[4.1.1 - Creature Keywords|keywords]] of these Sapients in an itemized list as the one bellow.

- Sapient
- Keyword A
- Keyword B

___