Players may gain [[2.7.1 - What are Knowledges|Knowledges]] by expanding time and effort during the game. In other words, Player Characters must take time from their day to exercise themselves, learn about the world around them, among other activities that would be connected with the Knowledge they want to acquire, under Worldshaper discretion.

The tables bellow show two measures of time you need to follow to gain the wanted Knowledge or Expertise Level. Time per Day is the amount of time someone must train per day to successfully maintain a training routine and Time Overall is the amount of time that the training routine must be maintained for that Attribute Increment to take place, in other words, for someone to learn a Hard Practical Knowledge, they must train 8 Hours per day for 1 Year.

Different from [[2.4.3 - Gaining Attributes during the Game|Attributes]], Knowledges can have their process be done in batches. For example, lets say you want to go from Journeyman to Expert in Swordsmanship, you can, during your downtime, maintain a training routine for 2 months, go into an adventure where you do not train, and, once in downtime again, maintain the training routine for the 4 months that are missing. Under Worldshaper discretion, the Knowledge you are training in batches may be used in a limited manner.

There are 2 tables, each applies to a different set of Knowledges, read the blurb above them carefully.

___

Expertise Knowledges use the following table:

Expertise Level | Time per Day | Time Overall
---------- | ------------ | ------------
Novice | 2 Hours | 1 Month
Journeyman | 4 Hours | 3 Month
Expert | 6 Hours | 6 Months
Master | 8 Hours | 1 Year


Practical Knowledges use the following table:

Knowledge | Time per Day | Time Overall
---------- | ------------ | ------------
Easy | 4 Hours | 1 Month
Median | 6 Hours | 3 Months
Hard | 8 Hours | 1 Year