As a Worldshaper, there may be situations where you need another means of spellcasting within this system, this section is here to help you when that happens. When creating a spellcasting system, keep in mind these tenets:

-   Magic must have a NOTICEABLE cost;
-   If it doesn't have a cost, it must have NOTICEABLE difficulties;
-   It may have both NOTICEABLE difficulties and costs.

Examples of noticeable costs and difficulties can be seen in both the [[3.4.2 - Arcane Spellcasting|Arcane]] and the [[3.4.5 - Divine Spellcasting|Divine]] spellcasting systems native to Knapped Stone.
For Arcane Magic, the Soul Cost is, as the name implies, a cost, and the spells being bound to items serves as a difficulty. For Divine Magic, the spell list limitation, the initial roll for the appropriate god to listen and the necessity of the appropriate Rites Knowledge all serve as difficulties.

Now, for examples of other spellcasting systems, let's look at Vital Spellcasting and Eldritch Spellcasting, both come from native Knapped Stone and Soft Rains scenarios.

##### Vital Spellcasting
Vital Spellcasting has a limited spell list and needs a specific Knowledge pertaining to the martial arts that uses the desired spell. Apart from that, listed with the spells are negative effects the creature accumulates per use of that spell, meant to represent the body of the creature being worn down by pushing its limits.

##### Eldritch Spellcasting
Eldritch Spellcasting needs the Knowledge of the same name, which grants unlimited access to every spell with the Eldritch Keyword. Alas, it has a dire cost, as every Eldritch Spell cast will remove points from the creature's [[9.2.1 - Sanity Attribute|Sanity]] pool, a rather limited and easy to wipe out resource that gives a negative effect every time it reaches 0.