## Faction Attributes
Factions have 3 Attributes, pivotal to all their operations and their very existence. If any of these Attributes ever hit 0, the faction is to be considered disbanded, unless they have a Descriptor that says otherwise.

**Unity (UNI)** | *Max: 20*
Unity represents how internally organized and cohesive the Faction is. Unity is used when defining the Turn order during a Faction Round, the higher the Unity value the more priority the Faction has. It is also used to define the amount of extra Actions a Faction has, for every 5 Unity, the Faction gains a another Action.

**Manpower (MNP)** | *Max: 15*
Manpower represents how much people a Faction can muster to act in its behalf. Twice the Manpower of a given Faction represents how many Units they can field at a time.

**Wealth (WLT)** | *Max: 30*
Wealth represents how many resources a Faction can assign to their goals. Twice the Wealth of a given Faction represents the amount of Installations they can have active at any given moment.

## Faction Resources
Factions also have 2 Resources, which can be used for a plethora of things, like fielding additional Units and Installations and growing. They gain these Resources by completing Objectives or by taking certain Actions.

**Influence (INF)** | *Max: 10*
Influence represents how much a Faction can throw its weight around to get what it wants. 1 point of Influence can be burned to allow a Faction to field an additional Unit or Installation for the next 3 Rounds. 10 Points of Influence can be burned to take the Grow Action, granting the Faction an Attribute Point to assign as it pleases.
Influence is gained by completing Objectives.

**Stratagems (STG)** | *Max: N/A*
Stratagems are to Factions what Luck is to Characters. Gained by taking the Plan Stratagem Action or by completing certain Objectives, a Stratagem Point can be burned to allow a Faction to reroll a dice on one of their Actions, preserve Units or Installations that were about to be lost with 1 Integrity, among other things under Worldshaper discretion.