## An Introduction to Action Economy

To talk about Action Economy, we first need to talk about the two divisions of time in Combat: The Round and the Turn. A Round is a 6 second moment, a Turn is a set of 2 Actions contained inside of the Round.

All Turns, and by extension all Actions, happen roughly at the same time within a given Round. The only exception are Turns that belong to the same Creature, those typically happen slightly after the Turn of the last Creature in the [[5.3.1 - Rolling for Initiative|Initiative Order]].

## Actions
As said previously, a Turn is a set of 2 Actions. Actions, as the name implies, are things that a Creature can do during Combat, granted they take a noticeable amount of time.

Things that are considered Actions:

**Movement**
The Creature moves Gridspaces up to their Movement Attribute. Choosing to take the Movement Action twice is refereed to as Dashing.
A Creature may choose to move a part of their Movement Attribute, take another Action, with the exception of Movement, and then continue on until they exhaust their Movement Attribute or when they are satisfied with how far they went.

**Disengage**
The Creature is able to move away from an enemy without incurring an Opportunity Attack.

**Attack**
The Creature does an Attack Roll against a valid Target, the Target then executes a Defense Roll. For the purposes of ruling, Defense Rolls are considered Free Actions on the part of the Target.

**Cast**
The Creature casts a Spell. If the Spell is an attack, use the Attack Action instead.

**Make a Maneuver**
The Creature executes a [[5.4.2 - Maneuvers|Maneuver]].

**Fetch an Item**
The Creature procures an item in their inventory. This is under Worldshaper discretion, as fetching an item that should be feasibly easily accessible, like a sheathed sword or holstered gun, should be considered a Free Action.

**Using an Item**
The Creature uses the effect of an item, such as a Consumable, Utility, or Amulet. If the item is stowed away in inventory and not easily accessible, they must first execute the Fetch an Item Action.

**Reload a Weapon**
The Creature reloads one of their weapons with the Ammo Keyword.

There are, of course, things that are not listed that would be considered Actions. Those situations, it falls under Worldshaper discretion to define if the suggested thing is an Action or not.

## Free Actions
A Creature can take any amount of Free Actions per Turn, within reason. They are quick things, that take no more then a few moments to execute.

Things that are considered Free Actions:

**Speaking**
Granted it isn't a long winded monologue, a Creature may use a Free Action to speak.

**Fetching a Quickslotted Consumable or Ammo**
The Creature grabs one of its Quickslotted Consumables or Ammo and readies it for use.

**Reload a Weapon with the Quickload Keyword**
The Creature reloads one of their weapons with the Ammo Keyword and Quickload Keyword.

**Inspecting a Creature**
The Creature looks at another and tries to discern a specified characteristic or the state of said Target. This Free Action can only be done once per turn.

There are, of course, things that are not listed that would be considered Free Actions. Those situations, it falls under Worldshaper discretion to define if the suggested thing is a Free Action or not.

## Reactions
A Creature can take Reactions every other Round, granted they have not used their Reaction in the previous Round. Reactions can be used outside a Creature's Turn, and can be as complex as Actions.

Things that are considered Reactions?

**Taking an Opportunity Attack**
The Creature attacks an enemy Creature that moves away from them without using the Disengage Action.

**Help an Ally**
The Creature helps an ally with one of their Actions. This requires a description of how the Creature is helping the ally and is under Worldshaper discretion.

**Reaction Cast**
The Creature casts a Spell that is described as taking a Reaction. If the Spell is an attack, use the Attack Action instead.

There are, of course, things that are not listed that would be considered Reactions. Those situations, it falls under Worldshaper discretion to define if the suggested thing is a Reaction or not.