Combat is a dance, a party attacks and another defends in tandem, action and reaction. Introductory blurb apart, Attack Actions in any Knapped Stone and Soft Rains combat scenario results in a Defend Action being taken.

The damage taken by a Creature is calculated by the difference between the Attack Strength and the Defense Effectiveness.

Attack Strength is calculated by adding the Successes of the Attack Roll with the amount of the [[2.4.1 - Attributes|Attribute (Body or Mind or Focus)]] used in the Attack Roll and the Weapon Power (and Projectile Power, if applicable) of the weapon or spell used in the attack. For ease of understanding, there is an equation provided bellow:

Attack Strength
``Successes + Attribute Amount (Body or Mind or Focus) + Weapon Power + Projectile Power (if applicable)``


Defense Effectiveness is calculated by adding Successes of the Defense Roll with the amount of the Attribute (Dodge or Toughness) used in the Defense Roll and the Shielding Power of the armor and other applicable items currently equipped by the Creature. For ease of understanding, there is an equation provided bellow:

Defense Effectiveness
``Successes + Attribute Amount (Dodge or Toughness) + Shielding Power``


By subtracting the two results, you have the equation that gives the total damage done to a Creature:

``Attack Strength - Defense Effectiveness = Total Damage``

## On Unarmed and Improvised Weapon Attacks
Sometimes a weapon isn't available, and on these cases, special attention must be given to the damage calculation. There are two ways a Creature can attack without a weapon or an action specified in their sheet: Unarmed Attacks or using Improvised Weapons.

Unarmed Attacks are melee attacks, use Body as their Attack Roll Attribute, and have Physical Power 1, unless stated otherwise. Improvised Weapons are under Worldshaper discretion, both for range and Weapon Power, but they will generally use Body as their Attack Roll Attribute.