If you found yourself in need to read this chapter, there are two things you must know before continuing:

- There is no such a thing as an easy way to revive someone, no clerics in a temple with access to revival miracles, no spell you can spend a diamond to bring someone back, no widely commercialized patches of revivifying nanites. If you need a soul back in its body, its going to demand sacrifices from you and your fellows, in more ways than one;
- There is no such a thing as cost-less revival, even the [[Miraclework]] or [[Divine Intervention]] Spells, if you can even manage to cast them in the first place, will take its due from the revived soul. And after you see what this due entails, you will learn what "A fate worst than death" means.

Now that you know what you are dealing with, let us continue with this section.

### Death and Ceremony
Knapped Stone & Soft Rains is a survival focused system, so killing off characters in an unceremonious manner, such as starvation, is not as frowned upon as other TTRPG systems. Alas, unceremonious death should only occur if the players put themselves in situations that should logically result in those kinds of demise, and even then, it is suggested to give the appropriate gravitas to the death of the characters.

That being said, death is meant to mean something, so if a death allows for ceremony, give the recently deceased the send off they deserve. Remember, killing off a character has two purposes, a mechanical one, where a part of the [[8.3.1 - Travelling in Groups|Fellowship]] is ripped away, taking much needed skills and knowledge with them, and a narrative one, by working through the grief (or lack thereof) of the other characters, the ones that remain living, for the wilderness is large and good friends are too few.

### The Price of a Life
There is no defined way to revive a dead person, the only constant is the price: A sacrifice of great value, material, immaterial, or both. The value of material things is not monetary, it is emotional, and immaterial things are not based it in time spent to achieve them, the process must to achieve them must mean something on an emotional level.

If a sufficient sacrifice has been provided (under Worldshaper discretion), and there is enough reasoning for the soul to be able to return to the body (E.G.: A higher power is helping, ritual is being done in an area infused by magic...), the deceased will revive. You can avoid going through all of this bureaucracy by simply casting a Spell, such as [[Miraclework]] or [[Divine Intervention]], but, in those cases, the price will be payed by the returning soul, as the individual in question gains the [[Revival Attrition]] Barrier permanently.