More often than not, an adventuring life does not end with a successful tale of epic proportions and equally impressive riches nor with the tragedy of death. In fact, most of those that answer the call to adventure retire, either due to injuries making them unable to continue or due to feeling like they've achieved all they set out to achieve.

It is important to remember that retired Characters do not suddenly die or disappear after they leave the [[8.3.1 - Travelling in Groups|Entourage]], instead, they return to civilization to carve a little section of it for themselves, to live the rest of their days in relative peace, and should become a part of this world as an NPC. This being said, retiring a Character is as simple as talking to the Worldshaper, agreeing on how they will part from the rest of the Fellowship, and either making a new character with a similar amount of [[2.7.1 - What are Knowledges|Knowledges]] and [[2.4.1 - Attributes|Attributes]] (maybe some extra [[2.8.1 - Choosing Barriers and Bolters|Barriers and Bolsters]] as well) or parting from the table.

### Returning to Action
It is possible to un-retire a Character, but the time out of the field should be taken into consideration:
- What new Knowledges have they picked up during their retirement?
- What Attributes have they developed?
- Did they sell, give, or lose any of their items?
- Did they gain any new Bolsters and/or Barriers?
- Did they tie any new Contacts and/or payed, gained, or are otherwise owing any new Favors?
- What where they doing while in retirement?

After you and the Worldshaper go thru these questions, and any other you two feel pertinent, the Character is ready to go back to the adventuring life.