Trades can be easily divided in types that outline their main focus. A [[8.3.1 - Travelling in Groups|Fellowship]] will typically have members with a variety of Trades, covering all of their needs while in adventure.

Types of Trades can be divided into two groups: Core Types and Specialist Types.


## Core Types
Core Types are Trades that fit in any group composition and, in fact, will have one of the present in any Fellowship. They are Freelancers, Bruisers, Gatherers, and Survivalists.

**Freelancer**
Freelancer Trades don't have a focus, instead, they choose their focus in the process of character creation. Typically students, commoners, and other sorts that would ample access to learning opportunities without the burden of specialization.
Starting items will typically include mediocre weapons/tools, a basic suit of armor, a basic utility, and rations. Choice items will include the ability to forego a choice for a Knowledge, more mediocre weapons/tools, basic consumables, valuables, trinkets, a Modifier to one of their pieces of equipment, and rations.
Starting Knowledges will be chosen in the process of character creation. Attribute increments can cover any attribute.

**Bruiser**
Bruiser Trades are ones focused on dealing damage and having high survivability during fights. Typically soldiers, thugs, and other sorts that trained to deal with violence in the daily basis of their jobs.
Starting items will typically include a decent melee weapon, a decent suit of armor, rations, one or two combat worthy utilities, and a basic ranged weapon with ammo. Choice items will typically include more weapons, combat related consumables, ammo, general utilities, valuables, trinkets, a Modifier to one of their pieces of equipment, and rations.
Starting Knowledges will include a weapon-related Expertise Knowledge and a Defensive Knowledge. Attribute increments will typically be between Health, Body, Focus, Toughness, and Dodge.

**Gatherer**
Gatherer Trades are ones focused on collecting food, goods, and other assorted material from the wilderness or cityscape. Foragers, miners, and other sorts that would have learnt the means to collect material from nature.
Starting items will typically include a decent tool, a basic suit of armor, rations, one or two support utilities, a mediocre melee weapon, and maybe a basic consumable or two. Choice items will typically include more tools, a slightly better melee weapon, some consumables, general utilities, valuables, trinkets, a Modifier to one of their pieces of equipment, and rations.
Starting Knowledges will include a tool-related Expertise Knowledge and a Resource Gathering Knowledge. Attribute increments will typically be between Body, Mind, Focus, and Dodge.

**Survivalist**
Survivalist Trades are ones focused on finding their way through wilderness and cityspaces, identifying shelter, and jury-rigging equipment from scrap and loose stones. Vagabonds, frontierpeople, and other sorts that would have been exposed to the elements for prolonged periods and learnt to navigate them. Choice items will typically include a mediocre tool, a decent melee weapon, some consumables, general utilities, the ability to forego a choice for a Contact, valuables, trinkets, a Modifier to one of their pieces of equipment, and rations.
Starting items will typically include a decent tool, a mediocre weapon (melee or ranged with ammo), a basic suit of armor, one or two packs of rations, consumables focused on survivability, storage utilities, and a trinket.
Starting Knowledges will include the Survival Knowledge for the appropriate environment and either a Resource Gathering Knowledge or a weapon-related Knowledge. Attribute increments will typically be between Health, Focus, Toughness, and Dodge.

## Specialist Types
Healers, Spellcasters, Investigators, Diplomats, Traders, Crafters, Rangers 

___
### Forager
While agriculture fuels the largest settlements in the world, foraging fuels every spearhead of civilization into the wilderness and unknown. You are one of the few that have truly made a profession out of scavenging for food in the bush, thankfully, for your allies.

__You have the following Items:__
- Iron Sickle
- Medicinal Herbs
- Travel Ration

_You may choose 2 extra items from the list bellow_
- Repair Kit
- Iron Knife
- Firestarter
- Travel Ration
- Item with the Valuable Keyword
- Item with the Trinket Keyword

__You have the following Knowledges:__
- Journeyman Foraging
- Herbalism

__You have the following Attribut Increments:__
- +1 Focus
- +1 Mind

___
### Vagabond
Yours is a dying kind, individuals that do not fit in grand picture and are cast adrift, either by choice or by force, to attempt and survive the harsh reality that surrounds all alone. But, as hard as the forces of nature tried, they could not kill you, and you have hardened due to it.

__You have the following Items:__
- Iron Dagger
- Firestarter
- Travel Ration

_You may choose 2 extra items from the list bellow_
- Poultice
- Regional Map
- Wooden Buckler
- Travel Ration
- Knapped Stone
- Item with the Trinket Keyword

__You have the following Knowledges:__
- Journeyman Wilderness Survival
- Novice Blade Combat

__You have the following Attribut Increments:__
- +1 Focus
- +1 Dodge

___