This section is reserved for the Worldshaper, unless you are seeking to host your own game, you can safely skip it. If you are looking for example Trades, check [[2.5.3 - Example Trades|Example Trades]].

___
### Name of the Trade
A short description including, but not limited to, lore importance of the trade, what it does and what can the players expect from it.

__You have the following Items:__
An itemized list of roughly 3 to 4 [[1.2 - Example Items|items]]. If you want to include weapons and tools, include something with their respective Power 2 (Example: A Sword with Physical Power 2), if you want to include armor, include up to second tier armor if it makes sense for this Trade to have one. It is also encouraged to give the Trade a unit of Travel Rations.

_You may choose 2 extra items from the list bellow_
An itemized list of roughly 6 to 7 items. It is a good idea to include extra survival items on this list, as well as giving the option for the player of choosing an item with the Valuable Keyword and/or an item with the Trinket Keyword, under your discretion, for lore reasons.


__You have the following Knowledges:__
An itemized list of up to 2 [[2.7.1 - What are Knowledges|Knowledges]]. The maximum an Expertise Knowledge can be leveled at is Journeyman.


__You have the following Attribute Increments:__
An itemized list of roughly 2 or 3 [[2.4.1 - Attributes|Attribute]] Increments. It is highly suggested that you only make it 3 increments if you have only given a Trade one Knowledge. these increments should only get an Attribute up 1 point, unless you want to make both increments the same attribute (Example: A Trade whose only increment is Body should have +2 Body on the list).

___