## Language, Tool Usage and Inventory
**Sapient**: This Creature is able to use and craft tools, communicate via written, signed, and/or spoken language, and trade.

**Trader**: While not sapient, this Creature can trade certain objects it finds valuable for others.

**Tool User**: While not sapient, this Creature can handle tools, weapons, armor, and consumables.

**Speaks (Language)**: While not sapient, this Creature is capable of communicating in the language between ().

**Alien Intelligence**: Some eldritch intent governs how this Creature thinks. Its motives are incomprehensible and whatever elements of sapience they exhibit may be misinterpretations of other, different behaviors.

**Repeating**: This Creature can repeat sounds it has been thought or heard, including the spoken word. It cannot understand the meanings of the sounds it replicates.

**Tamable**: This Creature can be tamed via some process outlined in its description. Once tamed, this creature will help its owner the best way it can achieve.

**Ridable**: This Creature may be ridden by another creature hence forth referred to as the Rider. The Rider controls the ridden Creature. If the Creature is unwilling to be ridden, the wanna-be Rider attempting to do so must do a contested Body Roll against the Creature, if they succeeds, they are now this Creature's Rider. The Creature may attempt to drop the Rider at any point, if the Rider is unwilling to stop riding the Creature, do another contested Body Roll, if the Creature succeeds, the Rider falls to the ground.

**Carrier**: This Creature may carry 2 extra Medium items, Large items equal to their Body and 1 Huge item without emptying their inventory.

## Action Modification
**Boss Attrition X**: This Creature is extremely powerful, as such, every 5 Rounds this Creature gains an Attrition Point, up to X. The Creature may sacrifice an Attrition Point to cause an effect similarly to how a Player can by sacrifice a Luck Point. This effect cannot be surviving certain death (E.G.: An attack that brings the Creature to 0 HP or bellow).

## Damage Modification
**Natural Weapon**: This Sapient has a natural weapon of some form. It will be further described in the appropriate page for this Sapient.

**Siege Engine**: Attacks from this Creature deal full damage to Structures and Vehicles, and double damage to Creatures.

**Harmless**: Attacks from this Creature deal no damage.

## Movement Modification
**Flight**: This Creature can fly. It gains a Flight Speed equal to its Movement Attribute.

**Float**: This Creature can float over terrain. Due to this it can essentially Climb with no Movement cost and pass over most dangerous Gridspaces without suffering their effects.

**Featherfall**: This Creature is immune to fall damage.

**Glide**: This Creature can move up to half its Movement Attribute, rounded down, while falling. Treat it as if it was under the effect of the Featherfall Keyword as well.

**Aquatic**: This Creature can swim without added Movement cost. This Creature takes twice as long time underwater to take Drowning Damage.

**Heavy**: This Creature sinks in liquid and cannot swim.

**Bury**: This Creature can use an action to bury itself within soil or stone. It can move while Buried with twice the normal Movement cost.

**Phasing**: This Creature can move through solid objects, but it cannot end its Movement within one.

**Static**: For the purposes of Movement Actions, this Creature's Movement Attribute is 0.

## Defense Modification
**Armored (X)**: This Creature is heavily armored in X body part, if this body part is hit, the Creature will only take 1 point of the appropriate damage.

**Heatproof**: This Creature is immune to the effects of Hot weather.

**Meltingproof**: This Creature is immune to the effects of Hot and Melting weather.

**Coldproof**: This Creature is immune to the effects of Cold weather.

**Freezingproof**: This Creature is immune to the effects of Cold and Freezing weather.

**Hydrophobia**: If this Creature comes in contact or ends their turn in contact with water, they will receive 1 Damage.

**Stalwart**: This Creature does not take knockback.

**Spiked**: Attacking this Creature through melee means will deal 1 Physical Damage to the Attacker.

**Impervious**: Only Magic Power attacks are able to damage this Creature.

**Spell Eater**: Spells cast in or at a 5x5 Gridspace radius of this Creature are consumed by it. Every consumed Spell restores 1 HP of this Creature.

**Vehicle-Build**: This Creature has a build similar to that of Vehicles. Non-Vehicle weapon attacks on this Creature deal half their damage, rounded down.

**Structure-Build**: This Creature has a build similar to that of Structures. Non-Vehicle weapon attacks on this Creature deal a quarter of their damage, rounded down.

## Equipment Modification
**Four Arms**: This Creature has four arms, therefore, it can carry up to 4 Items in its hands.

## Resistances and Immunities
**Fire Resistance**: This Creature takes 1 less Fire damage and is immune to the On Fire condition.

**Frost Resistance**: This Creature takes 1 less Frost damage and is immune to the Frozen condition.

**Poison Resistance**: This Creature takes 1 less Poison damage and is immune to the Poisoned condition.

**Magic Resistance**: This Creature takes 1 less Magic damage.

**Fire Immunity**: This Creature is immune to Fire damage, and to the On Fire condition.

**Frost Immunity**: This Creature is immune to Frost damage, and to the Frozen condition.

**Poison Immunity**: This Creature is immune to Poison damage, and to the Poisoned condition.

**Magic Immunity**: This Creature is immune to Magic damage.

## Vulnerabilities
**Frail**: Physical Power attacks deal 1 extra damage to this Creature.

**Fire Vulnerability**: This Creature takes 1 more Fire damage and the On Fire condition lasts for 2 extra turns.

**Frost Vulnerability**: This Creature takes 1 more Frost damage and the Frozen condition lasts for 2 extra turns.

**Poison Vulnerability**: This Creature takes 1 more Poison damage and the Poisoned condition lasts for 2 extra turns.

**Magic Vulnerability**: This Creature takes 1 more Magic damage.

## Behaviour Modification
**Sentry**: This Creature doesn't suffer with Tiredness.

**Fearful (X)**: This Creature fears the thing within (), and will not approach it, not matter the cost. If it is forced to approach the thing within (), it will need to make a Mind Test with Difficulty 5, if it fails, its inflicted with the Fear condition.

**Commanding**: This Creature may use its Actions to instead make one of its Lackeys execute one of their Actions.

**Lackey**: This Creature listens to the commands of a denominated Creature with the Commanding Keyword.

**Hatred**: This Creature will attack indiscriminately and cannot be negotiated with or distracted. It has immunity the Fear condition.

**Swarming**: This Creature may give one of their Actions to another creature of the same type as it within line of sight. (Example: Swarmling A, outside the range of their target, may give Swarmling B, inside the range of their target, one of their Actions, allowing Swarmling B to attack).

**Sync**: When this Creature takes an Action, any creature that is of the same type as it adjacent to it may use one of their Actions to take the same Action at the same time. (Example: Syncling A attacks a target, Syncling B, who is adjacent to Syncling A, may now choose to also attack that same target).

**Waterbound**: This Creature cannot live outside of water. Its Walking Speed is 1 and its Swimming Speed is equal to their Movement.

## Perception Modification
**Acute Smelling**: This Creature has Advantage 1 in Focus Tests that involve their sense of smell.

**Acute Hearing**: This Creature has Advantage 1 in Focus Tests that involve their sense of hearing.

**Acute Sight**: This Creature has Advantage 1 in Focus Tests that involve their sense of sight.

**Darkvision**: This Creature is capable of seeing in monochrome in low light environments, such a moonlit night or a candlelit corridor.

**Tremorsense**: This Creature can navigate using vibrations. One can avoid making noticeable vibrations by avoiding making sounds, carefully sneaking around, and/or threading on vibration absorbing material.

**Blind**: This Creature cannot use vision, therefore it fails all Focus Tests that involve vision instantly. No Mishaps apply during said failures.

**Deaf**: This Creature cannot use hearing, therefore it fails all Focus Tests that involve hearing instantly. No Mishaps apply during said failures.

**Mute**: This Creature cannot speak, therefore it fails all Mind Tests that involve speech instantly. No Mishaps apply during said failures.