Maneuvers are special [[5.3.2 - Action Economy|Actions]] that a Creature can take in battle. They can have a plethora of effects, limited only by Player creativity and Worldshaper discretion.

Here are some example Maneuvers:

**Grapple** | *Melee, Body vs Dodge*
The User rolls with Disadvantage 2. On a success, Target Creature cannot Move, Fetch, Use, Cast, or Attack and rolls Dodge with Disadvantage 4. On a successful Dodge, the Creature is freed. Once per turn, the Target Creature may use one of their Actions to make a contested Body test, on a success, the Creature is freed. The User rolls Attacks with Disadvantage 2 while they are holding the Target.

The User moves at half their Movement, taking the Creature with them, and may not Attack, Cast, Use, or Fetch.

Both the User and Target Creature may Attack with Weapons that have the Point-Blank or Concealable Keywords. The Creature may only Attack the User, with Disadvantage 2, a successful Attack frees the Creature. The User may only defend this attack using Toughness.

For purposes of Concentration breaking, a successful Grapple Maneuver counts as a Damaging Attack.

**Disarm** | *Weapon/Spell Dependent, Body/Mind/Focus vs Dodge*
The User rolls with Disadvantage 3. If they succeed the roll, Target Creature drops their current weapon at Gridspace next to them, assigned by the Worldshaper.

**Push** | *Melee, Body vs Toughness*
The User rolls with Disadvantage 2. Target Creature is pushed to a Gridspace chosen by the User, granted they could feasibly move at said direction in a straight line. For every 2 points of Body the User has, the Creature may be pushed an extra Gridspace, to a maximum of 5, following the same rules as above.

**Knock Down** | *Weapon/Spell Dependent, Body/Mind/Focus vs Toughness*
The User rolls with Disadvantage 2. If they are using a Ranged Weapon/Spell, they roll with Disadvantage 3 instead. In case the User is adjacent to their Target with a Ranged Weapon/Spell, they roll with Disadvantage 5 instead. If they succeed, Target Creature is now affected by the Prone Condition.

**Charge** | *Melee Weapon/Spell, Standard Attack Roll*
User moves to a Target Creature within their Movement Range and attacks. After the Charge Maneuver is resolved, the next Attack Action targeting the User gains Advantage 3, this lasts until the User's next turn.

**Hit-n-Run** | *Melee Weapon/Spell with Reach Keyword, Standard Attack Roll*
The User rolls with Disadvantage 4. User moves to a Target Creature within their Movement Range and attacks. Independent if the attack connects or misses, the User must then take a Disengage Action, free of cost.

**Lay Fire** | *Weapon/Spell with Line or Ranged Weapon/Spell with Area or Burst Fire, No Roll Required*
The User creates damaging Hazard tiles, following the rules outlined by the Keywords of their weapon. Maintaining the Hazard tiles will take the appropriate amount of Ammunition or Souls from their inventory and one of their Actions per round.

**Force Effect** | *Weapon/Spell with Effect-Granting Keyword, Focus vs Dodge/Toughness*
The User rolls with Disadvantage 2. If they succeed, the User may activate one of the Effect-Granting Keywords of their weapon/spell. For example, Creature wielding a weapon with Armor Shatter Keyword succeeds a Force Effect Maneuver, they inflict the Damage X Keyword on the Armor of the Target Creature without needing to get a Critical Success.

**Injure** | *Weapon/Spell, Body vs Dodge/Toughness*
Dis 4, Injures target at called part

**Predict** | *Within Field of View, Mind vs Mind*
The User attempts to predict the Target's next attack, if they are successful, they can do one of two things:

- Use the prediction themselves, gaining Advantage 1 on Defense Rolls against the Target;

- As a Reaction, warn one of their fellows about the Target's next move, making the Target's Attack Roll have Disadvantage 1.

The prediction is only valid until used or until the next Round.

**Spring Trap** | *Trap within range, Mind*
The User rolls with Disadvantage 1. The User utilizes their wits to trigger a trap within the range of their weapon. The difficulty of safely activating the trap is under Worldshaper discretion, failure to get the required amount of Successes will result in an additional Mishap.

**Push Boost** | *Ally in your path, Ally rolls Body*
The Allied Creature rolls with Disadvantage 1. The User and an Allied Creature that is in your path Gives an you an additional half movement

**Double-Team** | *Next to an Ally and both need a Melee Weapon/Spell, Two Standard Attack Roll*
Both roll with Disadvantage 3. You and your ally attack at the same target at the same time, at the cost of the Ally's Actions or both of your Actions for this Turn.

As said previously, these are only examples, be creative, use your Keywords, Spells, Knowledges, Barriers, Bolsters, and Items, make things up on the fly. After all, a inventive move may be the only thing standing between your fellowship and certain death.