Terrain is the basic, most quintessential concept to understand during Combat. Knowing how the very ground bellow you works is helpful on planning out strategies and avoiding death by thorns.

There are two, major types of terrain: Difficult Terrain and Hazards.

### Difficult Terrain
Difficult Terrain is terrain notoriously hard to traverse without aid or avoiding it completely. Mud, entangling plants, and thick snow layers are examples of Difficult Terrain.

While going through a [[5.2 - The Grid|Gridspace]] of Difficult Terrain, a Creature uses twice as much Movement.

### Hazards
There are multiple types of Hazards, they can be Damaging, Slipping, Trapping, or Deadly. Generally speaking, when a Creature interacts with a Hazard, they are instantly affected by whatever effects they have.

**Damaging Hazard**
Damaging Hazards are, as the name implies, Hazards that damage a Creature when they go through them. Some may give the Creature the option to make a Roll to avoid the damage.

**Slipping Hazard**
Slipping Hazards force the Creature that moves on it to Roll Body, with the context of [[Acrobatics]] or [[Athletics]]. If the Creature fails their Roll, they move in the direction they stepped towards until they either collide with something or reach ground without Slipping Hazards.

**Trapping Hazard**
Trapping Hazards force the Creature that moves on it to Roll Body, with the context of [[Acrobatics]] or [[Athletics]]. If the Creature fails their Roll, they are unable to move until they succeed another Body Roll.

**Deadly Hazard**
Deadly Hazards kill the Creature that moves into it, granted they fulfill the necessary requirements for that to happen. The requirement is typically falling into it.